# Uncovering Hidden Patterns: Exploring Unsupervised Learning in Software Engineering (600-750 words)

According to IBM, unsupervised learning, also known as unsupervised machine learning, uses machine learning algorithms to analyse and cluster unlabelled datasets, now being used increasingly by businesses, due to their value in improving the quality of business software. With AI popularity exponentially increasing through public products such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT, it would not be surprising to find that AI, and unsupervised learning has already been implemented into the commercial side, as a tool automating, as well as improving the quality of business data analysis, and thus through better software development, a better customer experience. 

In the 21st century, software development is significant for all corporations due to the efficiency and productivity it brings. A well-designed software system can automate routine tasks, reduces human errors, and reduce time-consuming administrative work. Similarly, in terms of the process of developing effective software, unsupervised learning can be used to drastically cut down on time and resources spent, particularly if well used in the design and implementation stages. According to Shnaider, machine learning can be used to efficiently detect errors and run code using less resources, also reducing maintenance costs when system errors occur (2022). Another valuable use of AI and ML in the design process includes predictive data analysis. With more aspects of human lifestyle becoming digitised, companies often encounter big data, (data that is so large, fast, or complex that it's difficult or impossible to process using traditional methods), meaning that it is time and cost saving to automate tasks, including finding crucial customer trends and patterns through unsupervised learning algorithms. Due to the nature of the data corporations encounter, it is crucial to employ software developers with efficient unsupervised learning algorithms, such as clustering, in order to dynamically understand the customer demographic, allowing for companies to better target advertisements and campaigns to improve profits (Allinson, 2023).  AI software development, according to Facts and Factors (2022), will exponentially reach upwards of $299.64 billion dollars in value, from $20.6 USD in 2023. 

Implementation of unsupervised machine learning in software development can take various forms, including predictive modelling, natural language processing (NLP), and big data analysis. Predictive modelling, done without machine learning is extremely difficult, due to the nature of big data having multi-dimensional factors in prediction, almost impossible to accomplish with traditional predictive methods (Shnaider, 2022).  Unsupervised learning is able to calculate and dynamically predict multi-factor data, while detecting and ignoring anomalies, making it more accurate and more efficient than human predictions. For example, sentimental analysis, can be performed by predictive analysis, able to predict the ways a target demographic will receive a given advertisement. Natural language processing, the application of computational techniques to the analysis and synthesis of natural language and speech, can be performed by unsupervised machine learning, by uncovering patterns and building relationships in text data. According to Robotics & Automation News (2023), call centres are able to cut their costs down by over 80%, through implementing unsupervised learning in software development, also indicating the rise of automated chatbots to answer mundane and repetitive customer queries. In the requirement analysis step of software development, AI can play crucial role in helping uncover hidden patterns and insights that are generally difficult for human’s, especially with the velocity, scale and variety of corporate data today. Unsupervised machine learning can help analyse, link, and predict patterns in big data that humans lack the ability to, making machine learning crucial for every company’s software development. 

In the future, unsupervised learning, and artificial intelligence are predicted to have increasing importance in the everyday consumer’s lifestyle. The rise of software development for driverless cars is promising, with start-ups such  as Tesla, Rivian, Zoox, are using unsupervised ML in order to accomplish the wide range of tasks a human driver encounters, including vehicle localisation (determining the position of the vehicle), pedestrian detection, traffic sign detection, road marking detection, auto-parking, self-localisation, etc (W&B, 2023). This data estimates almost 92% of all car accidents prevented, being able to dynamically predict and detect dangerous situations nearly two seconds (Briers, 2021). Furthermore, improved customer interfaces in online retail, with online chatbots working 24/7, predictive analytics linking customers with personalised desired products. 

The future of unsupervised machine learning in the realms of software development is exciting for both businesses and customers, as a tool to handle the big data consumers send to corporations. The very nature of trade will be optimised for humans, due to the efficiency and effectiveness of ML for predictive analysis, language processing, and data analysis, improving customer experience.

Bibliography 
Allinson, M. (2023). How Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Will Impact Software Development. [online] Robotics & Automation News. Available at: https://roboticsandautomationnews.com/2023/04/26/how-artificial-intelligence-and-machine-learning-will-impact-software-development/67672/ [Accessed 25 Aug. 2023].

Hanna Shnaider. (2022). The Use Of ML In Software Development - FortySeven. [online] Available at: https://fortyseven47.com/blog/the-use-of-ml-in-software-development/ [Accessed 25 Aug. 2023].

Goncharov, I. (2023). Weights & Biases. [online] Available at: https://wandb.ai/ivangoncharov/AVs-report/reports/The-Role-Of-Machine-Learning-In-Autonomous-Vehicles--VmlldzoyNTExMDE3 [Accessed 26 Aug. 2023].
Briers, S. (2021). AI system claims to prevent more than 90% of crashes. [online] Fleetnews.co.uk. Available at: https://www.fleetnews.co.uk/news/fleet-industry-news/2021/04/16/ai-system-claims-to-prevent-more-than-90-of-crashes#:~:text=%E2%80%9COur%20data%20shows%20that%20the,around%2092%25%20of%20accidents.%E2%80%9D [Accessed 26 Aug. 2023].
Briers, S. (2021). AI system claims to prevent more than 90% of crashes. [online] Fleetnews.co.uk. Available at: https://www.fleetnews.co.uk/news/fleet-industry-news/2021/04/16/ai-system-claims-to-prevent-more-than-90-of-crashes#:~:text=%E2%80%9COur%20data%20shows%20that%20the,around%2092%25%20of%20accidents.%E2%80%9D [Accessed 26 Aug. 2023].
